README.md, before:

# CometBFT DB

[![version](https://img.shields.io/github/tag/cometbft/cometbft-db.svg)](https://github.com/cometbft/cometbft-db/releases/latest)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/cometbft/cometbft-db.svg)](https://github.com/cometbft/cometbft-db/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![API Reference](https://camo.githubusercontent.com/915b7be44ada53c290eb157634330494ebe3e30a/68747470733a2f2f676f646f632e6f72672f6769746875622e636f6d2f676f6c616e672f6764646f3f7374617475732e737667)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/cometbft/cometbft-db)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/cometbft/cometbft-db/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/cometbft/cometbft-db)
![Lint](https://github.com/cometbft/cometbft-db/workflows/Lint/badge.svg?branch=main)
![Test](https://github.com/cometbft/cometbft-db/workflows/Test/badge.svg?branch=main)

A fork of [tm-db].

Common database interface for various database backends. Primarily meant for
applications built on [CometBFT], such as the [Cosmos SDK].

**NB:** As per [cometbft/cometbft\#48], the CometBFT team plans on eventually
totally deprecating and removing this library from CometBFT. As such, we do not
recommend depending on this library for new projects.

### Minimum Go Version

Go 1.20+

## Supported Database Backends

- **[GoLevelDB](https://github.com/syndtr/goleveldb) [stable]**: A pure Go
  implementation of [LevelDB](https://github.com/google/leveldb) (see below).
  Currently the default on-disk database used in the Cosmos SDK.

- **MemDB [stable]:** An in-memory database using [Google's B-tree
  package](https://github.com/google/btree). Has very high performance both for
  reads, writes, and range scans, but is not durable and will lose all data on
  process exit. Does not support transactions. Suitable for e.g. caches, working
  sets, and tests. Used for [IAVL](https://github.com/tendermint/iavl) working
  sets when the pruning strategy allows it.

- **[LevelDB](https://github.com/google/leveldb) [experimental]:** A [Go
  wrapper](https://github.com/jmhodges/levigo) around
  [LevelDB](https://github.com/google/leveldb). Uses LSM-trees for on-disk
  storage, which have good performance for write-heavy workloads, particularly
  on spinning disks, but requires periodic compaction to maintain decent read
  performance and reclaim disk space. Does not support transactions.

- **[BoltDB](https://github.com/etcd-io/bbolt) [experimental]:** A
  [fork](https://github.com/etcd-io/bbolt) of
  [BoltDB](https://github.com/boltdb/bolt). Uses B+trees for on-disk storage,
  which have good performance for read-heavy workloads and range scans. Supports
  serializable ACID transactions.

- **[RocksDB](https://github.com/tecbot/gorocksdb) [experimental]:** A [Go
  wrapper](https://github.com/tecbot/gorocksdb) around
  [RocksDB](https://rocksdb.org). Similarly to LevelDB (above) it uses LSM-trees
  for on-disk storage, but is optimized for fast storage media such as SSDs and
      memory. Supports atomic transactions, but not full ACID transactions.

- **[BadgerDB](https://github.com/dgraph-io/badger) [experimental]:** A
  key-value database written as a pure-Go alternative to e.g. LevelDB and
  RocksDB, with LSM-tree storage. Makes use of multiple goroutines for
  performance, and includes advanced features such as serializable ACID
  transactions, write batches, compression, and more.

## Meta-databases

- **PrefixDB [stable]:** A database which wraps another database and uses a
  static prefix for all keys. This allows multiple logical databases to be
  stored in a common underlying databases by using different namespaces. Used by
  the Cosmos SDK to give different modules their own namespaced database in a
  single application database.

- **RemoteDB [experimental]:** A database that connects to distributed
  CometBFT db instances via [gRPC](https://grpc.io/). This can help with
  detaching difficult deployments such as LevelDB, and can also ease dependency
  management for CometBFT developers.

## Tests

To test common databases, run `make test`. If all databases are available on the
local machine, use `make test-all` to test them all.

To test all databases within a Docker container, run:

```bash
make docker-test-image
make docker-test
```

[tm-db]: https://github.com/tendermint/tm-db
[CometBFT]: https://github.com/cometbft/cometbft-db
[Cosmos SDK]: https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk
[cometbft/cometbft\#48]: https://github.com/cometbft/cometbft/issues/48

Commit message:

feat: upgrade to cometbft-db v0.11.0

README.md, after:

# CometBFT DB

[![version](https://img.shields.io/github/tag/cometbft/cometbft-db.svg)](https://github.com/cometbft/cometbft-db/releases/latest)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/cometbft/cometbft-db.svg)](https://github.com/cometbft/cometbft-db/blob/main/LICENSE)
[![API Reference](https://camo.githubusercontent.com/915b7be44ada53c290eb157634330494ebe3e30a/68747470733a2f2f676f646f632e6f72672f6769746875622e636f6d2f676f6c616e672f6764646f3f7374617475732e737667)](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/cometbft/cometbft-db)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/cometbft/cometbft-db/branch/main/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/cometbft/cometbft-db)
![Lint](https://github.com/cometbft/cometbft-db/workflows/Lint/badge.svg?branch=main)
![Test](https://github.com/cometbft/cometbft-db/workflows/Test/badge.svg?branch=main)

A fork of [tm-db].

Common database interface for various database backends. Primarily meant for
applications built on [CometBFT], such as the [Cosmos SDK].

**NB:** As per [cometbft/cometbft\#48], the CometBFT team plans on eventually
totally deprecating and removing this library from CometBFT. As such, we do not
recommend depending on this library for new projects.

## Minimum Go Version

Go 1.21+

## Supported Database Backends

- **[GoLevelDB](https://github.com/syndtr/goleveldb) [stable]**: A pure Go
  implementation of [LevelDB](https://github.com/google/leveldb) (see below).
  Currently the default on-disk database used in the Cosmos SDK.

- **MemDB [stable]:** An in-memory database using [Google's B-tree
  package](https://github.com/google/btree). Has very high performance both for
  reads, writes, and range scans, but is not durable and will lose all data on
  process exit. Does not support transactions. Suitable for e.g. caches, working
  sets, and tests. Used for [IAVL](https://github.com/tendermint/iavl) working
  sets when the pruning strategy allows it.

- **[LevelDB](https://github.com/google/leveldb) [experimental]:** A [Go
  wrapper](https://github.com/jmhodges/levigo) around
  [LevelDB](https://github.com/google/leveldb). Uses LSM-trees for on-disk
  storage, which have good performance for write-heavy workloads, particularly
  on spinning disks, but requires periodic compaction to maintain decent read
  performance and reclaim disk space. Does not support transactions.

- **[BoltDB](https://github.com/etcd-io/bbolt) [experimental]:** A
  [fork](https://github.com/etcd-io/bbolt) of
  [BoltDB](https://github.com/boltdb/bolt). Uses B+trees for on-disk storage,
  which have good performance for read-heavy workloads and range scans. Supports
  serializable ACID transactions.

- **[RocksDB](https://github.com/linxGnu/grocksdb) [experimental]:** A [Go
  wrapper](https://github.com/linxGnu/grocksdb) around
  [RocksDB](https://rocksdb.org). Similarly to LevelDB (above) it uses LSM-trees
  for on-disk storage, but is optimized for fast storage media such as SSDs and
  memory. Supports atomic transactions, but not full ACID transactions.

- **[BadgerDB](https://github.com/dgraph-io/badger) [experimental]:** A
  key-value database written as a pure-Go alternative to e.g. LevelDB and
  RocksDB, with LSM-tree storage. Makes use of multiple goroutines for
  performance, and includes advanced features such as serializable ACID
  transactions, write batches, compression, and more.

- **[PebbleDB](https://github.com/cockroachdb/pebble) [experimental]:** Pebble
  is a LevelDB/RocksDB inspired key-value store focused on performance and
  internal usage by CockroachDB. Pebble inherits the RocksDB file formats and a
  few extensions such as range deletion tombstones, table-level bloom filters,
  and updates to the MANIFEST format.

  CAVEAT: there are reports of broken upgrade process when using [Cosmos
  SDK](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk).

## Meta-databases

- **PrefixDB [stable]:** A database which wraps another database and uses a
  static prefix for all keys. This allows multiple logical databases to be
  stored in a common underlying databases by using different namespaces. Used by
  the Cosmos SDK to give different modules their own namespaced database in a
  single application database.

## Tests

To test common databases, run `make test`. If all databases are available on the
local machine, use `make test-all` to test them all.

To test all databases within a Docker container, run:

```bash
make docker-test-image
make docker-test
```

[tm-db]: https://github.com/tendermint/tm-db
[CometBFT]: https://github.com/cometbft/cometbft-db
[Cosmos SDK]: https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk
[cometbft/cometbft\#48]: https://github.com/cometbft/cometbft/issues/48
